Companies with heavy assets, things that
are not
can't be replicated, things that you
can't just spin it up overnight by
typing into a chat box. This is now
where you see the market pivoting.
Hi Miriam. Hi Tellus.
This week we've got a big conversation
planned about Halos. We'll define that
in a bit. Maybe you've heard of it
already. It's been in the news. Yes, but
first we have to talk about the Fed
because a key milestone was reached this
past week. The Senate Banking Committee
advanced the nomination of Kevin Warsh
which had been a question up until quite
recently.
Yeah, I mean at this point his
nomination or his confirmation is a fait
accompli. It's moved past all of the
sort of roadblocks. I think that we're
standing in the way of it. Um, and then
we got a little bit of a preview of what
life is going to be like for Kevin Warsh
as Fed chair with this past week's Fed
meeting. First, let's talk about what
the actual decision was. Though there
was no change in rates, there was a ton
of dissent. You had Stephen Muren in his
usual role of saying we should cut
rates. But this time you also had three
voters saying that what they wanted to
do was tweak the language in the Fed's
statement to suggest that it's not
that the next move isn't just likely to
be a cut but that there is a possibility
that the next move could actually be an
interest rate hike and that shows that,
you know, when Kevin Warsh comes in,
he's going to be dealing with a Fed
where there is huge disagreement about
what the next move should be.
>> And this is showing up in the market's
expectations. We have the market now
betting that there's an 11% chance that
the Fed will raise interest rates this
year. And that's actually higher than
the expected chance of a cut which was
2% probability um as of this recording.
So, you know, the market's base case of
course is that rates will stay the same
but the chances of a hike are now
exceeding the chances of a cut which is
a quite a reversal from where we were at
the beginning of the year. You had
another really, really big piece of news
this past week which is that Jerome
Powell, he will not be leaving the Fed
as is customary for when somebody ends
their time as chairman because
technically the chairman is also on the
Fed board.
They don't have to not be on the Fed
board anymore but usually when they stop
being chair, they also leave. Jerome
Powell though said he will be sticking
around. He said he's going to try and
keep a low profile. He actually he did
this cute thing where someone said,
"What does that mean?" And he sort of
like literally ducked a little bit.
>> Honestly, the funniest Fed chairman in
history.
>> Yeah, Kevin Warsh has some big shoes to
fill in terms of like just sort of
self-effacing
>> [laughter]
>> humor. I don't really know if that's his
his bag exactly.
>> No, he seems like a serious person.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah. Um,
so as I'm thinking about things to look
for ahead, obviously we'll be looking
for whatever Kevin Warsh has to say um
you know, maybe once his his his
confirmation is finalized. But really
I'm interested in what these other
voters are saying and thinking because
it's really going to be their
views that that might set the tone for
for the Fed in the near future. And so
actually this coming Friday, there's a
Hoover Institution Monetary Policy
Conference where
one of the people on a panel there will
be Chris Waller among other Fed
officials. So, it'll be really
interesting to hear what he and they
have to say about monetary policy. And
you've also got a jobs report this
upcoming week. And as we've talked so
much about on this show, those are
volatile, they're difficult to
interpret.
>> Mhm. We'll see if there's anything that
comes out of that and look for, you
know, how Fed officials, you know, other
Fed officials might be reacting to to to
that, you know, to to the data points
that are coming.
>> it into their thinking. Yeah. That'll be
something to look out for.
Another set of players that are probably
watching interest rates very closely are
the private markets firms and their
reporting this coming week or many of
them are. Blackstone already reported
but this coming week we have KKR,
Apollo, and Sixth Street Specialty
Lending which is Sixth Street's business
development company, another private
credit player. All of them will be
closely watched because of course the
big news from them has been around
outflows. There's a narrative that
private credit is in trouble and people
are fleeing. Um, we can unpack that a
little bit more um because it's kind of
unclear exactly what's going on but a
lot of it's based on fears or
expectations about what might happen to
their private credit portfolios. Yeah,
and look Miriam, you and I've been
writing and talking about this topic for
for a long time um and it's something
that really has moved from, you know,
kind of an intra Wall Street
conversation that's something that that
that everyone is talking about for fear
that that that these lenders have
overexposed themselves to software
companies that are themselves at risk of
disruption from artificial intelligence.
So, all the the the big kind of AI
trades that have taken place in the
stock market this year where you've seen
companies that are deemed to be sort of
potential AI victims, their stocks have
gone down. In the world of credit,
people are worried that they won't be
able to pay back their loans as well.
And these private credit firms have been
big lenders to them. But like you said,
you know, there's there's definitely
kind of a competing narratives here at
at play. And on the one hand you have a
lot of focus on how
you know, individual investors, we say
retail but really we're talking about
like, you know, generally like wealthy
people.
>> Yep. Registered investment advisors who
advise like big groups of people, family
offices, things like that. You know, are
they going to want to pull their money
out of the funds where they have that
ability to do so.
Um, we won't get into we don't have to
get in all the nitty-gritty of the stuff
but yeah.
>> fund structure doesn't allow you to take
your money out. And the investors in
those are pension funds, sovereign
wealth funds, endowments. And they're
okay with putting money into a fund,
locking it up for a period of time and
then over time getting the return. But
the way that these funds for individual
investors have been designed is that
they allow you to take money out on a
quarterly basis at the discretion of the
manager. And uh
you have only a certain number of shares
can be redeemed each quarter and people
have started to get in line to do that.
>> Well, here I called it nitty-gritty
thinking it's hard to explain and you
just did it beautifully in the mirror.
It's like you've been [laughter] writing
about it for
very well for many years or something.
Um, and the competing narratives point I
think is that those those funds where
people can take their money out, there
have been people taking their money out.
There's still money coming into those
funds thus far though it had it had a
diminishing rate kind of overall. But
what what we will hear in these earnings
reports that is relevant and and that we
don't know from other disclosures cuz a
lot of those other funds we kind of know
what they do quarterly and monthly and
stuff.
>> each have their own SEC disclosures and
so they have already reported some of
that data.
>> So, for listeners who aren't used to
following this stuff, what what we will
get from these managers earnings reports
are updates on the the institutional
flows into their bigger kind of
you know, those those other types of
funds where you put your money in and
you don't get it out for years and
years. So, those institutional flows
into especially credit, credit's the
focus though these these managers are
also big in private equity, real estate,
other areas. There's lots of talk about
in those places too. But just focusing
on credit for a second. And so what
Blackstone said when it reported was
that actually it had just closed one of
its largest credit institu-
institutional credit funds ever. It was
they got tons of money, people putting
their money into it. And so so their
argument is that while you know, maybe
some investors are getting nervous that
like the the you know, as they would I
think say, you know, kind of the the
money that's been used to this. I don't
know if they call it that but
all their [laughter] you know, but like,
you know, I think we can talk about it
that way. The smart money, big money
institutions are still putting money
into this asset class. So, quarterly
reports from the likes of KKR and Apollo
are not really going to give you major
new information about credit risk. What
you will hear about are those fund flows
and that is I think how investors will
because ultimately that's how these
managers make their money, right? Right.
The more assets they manage, the more
money they make. And the performance of
them goes up and down. But but they just
need to keep growing. And so the
question has been can they keep growing?
>> That's why their stocks are down. Their
stocks are not down because people are
worried about the performance of private
credit.
>> And it plays into it obviously. If they
underperform, they can't raise money.
But the their stocks are down because of
the worry that they won't be able to
raise money. And especially from these
new fast growing channels like
individual investors and potentially
401Ks not too long from now.
>> All right, look Miriam, private credit
is something that you and I can and do
talk about all day long. But I'm not
sure what's of interest to it to our
broader audience of investors. We could
talk about it as an industry story,
right? You know, these are publicly
traded um stocks in the form of
alternative asset managers. We could
talk about the credit risk element,
right? There are loans that might go
bad. And from that there's an economic
risk, right? There's an economic
element. Uh we could also talk about it
as an investor from the point of view of
your retirement funds. Is this a good
fit for your retirement fund? So,
audience, we'd like your feedback about
how we should talk about private credit
on this show. What interests you in it?
Or maybe you're like, private credit,
what the heck is that? And so we need to
dial it back a little bit. So, we'd love
some feedback for that as we think about
how to tackle that topic on this show.
As always uh if we do end up featuring
you and your question on our show, uh
we'd love to send you some WSJ merch for
your participation. This merch offer is
open only to US residents 18 and older.
Sorry residents outside the US. It's our
lawyers. It's really it's not it's not
us. It's not us. It's the lawyers. But
the earnings calendar is is is busy
elsewhere as well this upcoming week. Uh
couple of companies that we wanted to
call out. One is Disney. They are
reporting on Wednesday. Uh little bit of
drama with them recently where the FCC
has opened up uh an early license review
of Disney's broadcast television
licenses. But you know, while these kind
of linear TV assets, which I don't know,
most people probably think are kind of
dying and yesterday's news, uh have been
a headache, uh you know, Disney's really
looking at the future, which is, you
know, in live entertainment. Um they
recently named experiences, uh as they
call it, chairman Josh uh D'Amaro as the
CEO
uh of Disney. And, you know,
experiences, which are things like
cruise ships and theme parks, um they've
counted for most of Disney's profits
since 2022. So, I think that's what
investors will really be looking at.
>> Yeah, I agree with that. And, I mean, I
don't go to Disney with my child quite
yet. She's only 2, and I'm hoping to
avoid it for as long as humanly
possible. But, they do have, um you
know, incredible pricing power. I've
just heard about how they've been able
to raise prices at the parks a lot, and
um the Journal's written a lot about
that. And, you know, the margins have
been really good in parks as a result.
And, another company that's reporting
this week that I think people will be
looking closely at is McDonald's. They
had a pretty good quarter the last time
they reported. Um obviously, they are uh
you know, a popular play when people are
thinking about budget-conscious
consumers. Um you know, people are
trading down from, you know, kind of
sit-down restaurants or doing more fast
food. McDonald's is a big beneficiary.
And, interestingly, this this is really
I like this. They jolted, uh thanks
thanks producers for for that. That's a
good one. They jolted coffee company
stocks when they announced a plan to
offer kind of competitively priced, I
guess, you know, caffeine alternative
type beverages, right? That's like sodas
and energy drinks, right? So, you know,
so if if, you know, the price of coffee
has been something that has been
impacted by everything going on in the
world and has been going up. So,
there's a reason that uh I think we set
out to talk about these two companies
the way that we did, talking about
people going to theme parks, people
drinking beverages. And, that's because
while AI can do a lot of things, it
cannot hug you like Mickey Mouse can.
And, it cannot flood your nervous system
with that sweet sweet caffeine.
And, that is why these are two
companies, Disney and McDonald's, that
are being talked about as part of this
new trade, this new investment strategy
called Halo. So, Miriam, tell us
finally, what is what is Halo? Heavy
assets, low obsolescence.
And, to talk about what that means and
why we should care as investors, we have
Josh Brown, The guy who came up with the
term.
>> The guy who coined the term, the
inventor of it. He is the CEO of
Ritholtz Wealth Management. You might
know him from his own podcast, on which
Tellus has appeared.
>> That's right, The Compound, yep. And,
Halo is a way of thinking about
companies that could be disrupted by AI,
since a lot of their business relies on
having actual physical presence and
physical infrastructure. And,
we want to hear more about what this
means and how investors could apply
>> questions about it, too. It didn't uh
There were some parts of it that I'm
like, "Hmm, I don't know about that."
So, you know, we wanted to ask Josh. We
wanted to ask the man himself. We're
going to take a quick break, and then
we'll have our conversation with Josh
Brown.
>> [music]
>> Ladies and gentlemen, live from the
interrogation room at The Wall
[laughter] Street Journal, I'm Josh
Brown.
Can we get the lights any hotter and
brighter?
>> [laughter]
>> Just crank it up a little bit.
>> Okay, I have a question about Halo.
Whenever I think about Halo, I think
about um high altitude, low opening,
which I learned about from Tom Cruise in
Mission Impossible when he did that
skydive that where he comes through the
lightning storm.
What does Halo mean in this case? You
see, Tom Cruise is an actor. That film
is basically science fiction, whereas in
real life, Halo is
heavy assets, low obsolescence. And,
when did you start thinking about that
concept? What prompted it? Was it like
the launch of ChatGPT? We were 5 weeks
into the start of the year,
and I noticed one of the
>> 25 year? This year, okay. So, I have a
process. I look at each week's winners
and losers, and I try to conceptualize
what's happening. And, most of the time
it's noise.
But, I looked at the year-to-date, and I
saw something I've never seen before,
and I'm doing this almost 30 years. I
saw this very bizarre confluence
on the 52-week high list
of two sectors that you would think are
telling the opposite economic story.
We've always thought of semiconductors
as being
hyper [snorts] procyclical. Like, if
things are going gangbusters, they're
going to be, hopefully, amongst the
leading sectors of the market. And,
we've always thought of utilities as
being almost the polar opposite. Now,
this is prior to the the war in Iran,
Okay. Pepsi looked great. And,
Anheuser-Busch uh InBev was making this
impossible to envision comeback. And,
all all of a sudden, I'm trying to I'm
saying to myself, "Wait, wait, wait,
wait."
It's Broadcom.
It's AMD. It's Nvidia. It's all of these
offshoots like KLA and um
then we're looking at names like uh
Corning and Dell. This is old tech.
Hardware.
>> physical tech. Mhm. Paired with
utilities?
And, I understand, like we all
understand, this is the AI CAPEX.
But, then throwing in the staples, the
Coca-Colas, and I see, "You know what's
going on?
All of the worst-performing stocks in
the market are the ones that are under
siege by LLMs, and not just software.
So, um we'll get to that in a second,
but I'm looking at Morningstar. I'm
looking at um FactSet. I'm looking at
CBRE. But, conceptually, I'm saying to
myself, "Here's what's going on.
People are, whether they mean to or not,
but as a group, so they're all
individually acting on their own,
portfolio managers, more so than retail.
But, like as a group, what it looks like
is they're herding into
the heavy asset companies, which I'm
going to tell you a story about that in
1 second, and they're getting as far
away as they can from the companies that
are deemed to be susceptible to
um anthropic and and that type of
disruption. So, what constitutes a Halo
company? Like, what what are the
parameters for it, and what are some of
the You know, you've mentioned some
examples, but can you give us a few
more?
>> Yeah, so in the post-financial crisis
era, which I would deem to be the 15
years immediately following 2000 like
to, let's say, just recently,
the number one thing you had to be to be
a top-performing stock in the stock
market, like I'm overgeneralizing, but
for the most part, was capital light.
This is what investors wanted. These
were the stocks that got the multiple
expansion.
Um even Apple, as successful as the
iPhone is, the only thing people want to
hear about is the services. Right.
>> Okay. So, capital light was um was SaaS,
basically. Like, these software
companies that came along and got 50,
100, 200 billion-dollar market caps,
whether they were cybersecurity or
vertical or horizontal security or
workplace workplace productivity or CRM,
they were capital light. They would put
in the the expense of creating a piece
of software, and then they could make
endless copies of it for free. So,
we just saw a switch flip. Because now,
it's like, "Wait, wait, wait, wait.
There's no moat around information Mhm.
or automation or process. Like, all of
that is like up for grabs now. People
are creating their own software. They're
sourcing their own data. They're putting
those things together. They're telling a
machine to make them more of it. Oh,
boy. No moat. We don't want to hear
about capital light. Companies with
heavy assets, things that are not
can't be replicated, things that you
can't just spin it up overnight by
typing into a chat box. This is now
where you see the market pivoting." So,
to answer your question in a very long
uh roundabout way, Caterpillar. Yeah.
This is the quintessential Halo company.
They're involved in the CAPEX boom that
we're all aware of, and can't be
replicated. The software is embedded in
the manufacturing process. You can't rip
it out and put it in anthropic. Okay.
Some of the staples, and of course, the
oil price spike knocked those out. But,
still, these are Halo companies by
definition. But, it's not about being a
tech company or not a tech company,
right? It's not the It's not because
Caterpillar is closer to farming and
physical production, because
a lot of the big tech companies that got
so big during that capital light phase
are now becoming capital heavy
companies, right? They're spending every
dollar
>> I'm really glad you brought that up.
It's not tech versus non-tech. It's not,
as I heard some people phrase it, new
economy versus old economy. That's a
30-year-old concept. That's We don't use
that anymore. Everything's new economy,
or it's bankrupt.
>> Like you said, Caterpillar, you know,
tractors are full of computers. I mean,
it's yeah.
>> Right. Correct. There is no such thing
as old economy anymore, okay? Some of
the oldest companies in America, I
mentioned Corning just now. It's
100-something years old.
>> That's the glassmaker, right?
>> Yeah, but fiber optics for data centers.
Okay.
>> Like, very heavily involved in GPUs.
Like, okay. So, we don't So, that
paradigm is from another era. I've heard
people confusing Halo with old new. It's
not old new.
It's also not growth value.
It's not small or large. It's another
way people view the markets, right?
Because there are small-cap Halo
companies and large-cap, and there's the
reverse for both, right? It's not US
versus international,
because we do have a lot of Halo in
Europe, for example. Um and, it's not
even just AI.
Think about the physical tech spending
happening with our defense department,
all the NATO countries, everybody's
rearming. That is part of this Halo
idea. These are capital-intensive, heavy
industry type stocks. And, they're not
It's There is AI, of course, when you
think about like what the Andurils and
the
um Palantirs of the world are doing, but
it's not all about AI. So, this is the
mindset shift. People are valuing
physical, capital-intensive assets,
industrial assets, much higher than they
were even 6 months ago. Is the trade
already played out then? I mean is is
this stuff like overvalued now?
>> Not until my ETF launches.
>> [laughter]
>> No, I don't think so. That's the second
question I always get. Like, all right,
so did I miss it? Yeah. No, I don't
think so because
it's not like there's going to be a uh
a ceasefire
between open AI, Anthropic, and all of
these information businesses. It's not
like they're just going to stop.
>> Mhm. It's going to go deeper and further
than anybody thinks is possible. And
it's years years
um
There are a lot of So, I brought up
CBRE. You might say, what does that have
to do with this?
CBRE is a commercial real estate
brokerage, okay?
But, think about how they make their
money. They sometimes they represent
landlords, right? Sometimes they
represent developers who are coming
online with a new project. Sometimes
they do tenant rep. They represent
people companies that are leasing.
Um
They have this information asymmetry
where they know more about pricing,
supply, demands in any given local
metropolitan market all over the world.
And they use that information asymmetry
to make money. Nothing wrong with that.
But,
if that information asymmetry gets
eroded
by the widespread use of knowledgeable
people paired with Claude
>> Mhm.
all of a sudden, yeah, they're still in
a good business, but it's not a halo
business. It is under assault by a
thousand, a million amateur real estate
experts who are now able to come to the
table armed with a lot more information
than they formerly had. So, this is a
microcosm of what I think will play out
over the next 5 to 10 years. What about
other real estate companies? Because you
raise an interesting point, right?
Buildings, obviously a you know, another
fixed asset, not going anywhere. But
>> Prologis is halo. Yeah. Mhm. Prologis is
shipping and logistics and warehouses.
Mhm. There's nothing you can prompt to
change the need for that. If things have
to get shipped, moved, and stored in a
pre-AI world, they will also until we
get to the point where Star Trek like we
can summon something up in the molecules
assemble themselves in a in a in a
teleportation device, um Prologis will
be a real estate play to your point that
is halo. And that's why this has gotten
so tricky. It's in the same sector. Mhm.
Just So, do you like REITs or not like
REITs? Well, what kind? I don't think I
don't think I'm going to look at an
office building the same way as I'm
going to look at a hospital REIT. Mhm.
Okay.
Even within the same industry, take
Delta and Expedia.
You might think, well, it's travel and
travel's going well. No.
Delta can't be replaced. It owns the
planes. I don't need Expedia at all
right now. I could tell my LLM, I have a
business trip, I have to be in
Scottsdale, I'm going to stay for two
nights, I will only stay in four or five
star, for me it's five star. Mhm.
[laughter]
I'm not spending that 5 minutes doing
that on Expedia anymore.
And that's less visits, less clicks,
less transactions, right? So, that's an
example where it's not enough to just
say, oh, travel is halo.
It's well, which travel related
companies
are halo and which aren't. And that's
why I think it's a new paradigm.
>> Not all asset heavy companies are well
run. Not all of them are cheap. So, how
much do other factors also matter? You
can't just I mean, I know we're looking
at the very high level. This is halo,
this is not halo. But, how much do you
have to then dig down into the
underlying companies before you decide
which ones you want to own? I couldn't
agree more with you. And that's what I
think is happening in the markets each
day. But, what I think has changed now
is the starting point. Mhm. Like, where
is the prism through which you're going
to view the market?
Maybe it used to be, I only want to look
at the bottom um
the bottom quintile evaluation. Value
investor, that's my starting point. Or,
I on the other side, I only want to
consider companies that are in the top
decile of expected earnings growth. And
then I'll rank those by
PEG ratio, so I'm not overpaying for
earnings growth. And then my universe
narrows down to 30 names and we'll
listen to some conference calls and
we'll Okay, that's how it used to work.
Now, the starting point is different.
And we don't have
I know Goldman has put together some
baskets for this. They tell me they have
a lot.
We don't really have a generally
accepted, maybe the journal can do this,
a generally accepted quantitative
ranking of the degree to which companies
are halo or not halo.
But, I think what you're saying is like
this could be a framework that would
prevent you from catching a falling
knife. Like some things are cheap for a
reason.
>> That's it. Yeah. Like software.
>> This might not have be be about what to
buy. It might to your point, this might
just be as simple as
all right, I got 10 candidates. These
two are definitely not halo. The market
already knows this. Therefore, they're
down 40% from their highs. Normally, I
might say, 40% discount, too cheap, I'm
buying it. But, I may not in the current
era. But, what if we're wrong about what
has the tailwind for AI? I mean, we've
had stories recently about how people
are sorting through software stocks to
try to figure out which ones actually
could adapt and benefit from AI and
which ones are going to be left behind?
>> all of your stories.
I've listened to what your sources have
said in the quotes.
It's a lot of wishful thinking.
>> Mhm. What we actually know is that for
companies to become AI ready and
actually harness this power, they're
going to have to spend a lot of money.
And that spending is going to get
diverted from other types of spending.
We know we know this. They can't invent
more money for for um CapEx. So, they're
going to take their tech budget and
they're going to tell Anthropic,
whatever you need in order for us to be
able to say we're AI we're like using
AI, that you get that budget. And then
they're going to talk to ServiceNow and
they're going to be like, yeah, about
that annual price increase, you can kiss
my ass, it's not happening this year.
One thing that worries me about this
though is that it seems to make the
whole market seem like it is part of an
AI super cycle.
>> It is. And so, buying halo companies,
maybe they feel like, oh, they're
diversifiers, right? Oh, these are
companies that aren't going anywhere.
They're not going to be obsolescent.
But, it seems like right now they are
being propelled by, like you mentioned,
commercial real estate, right?
You know, if you own a warehouse that's
being approved by AI right now.
Everybody wants, you know, stuff out of
that. So,
does any of this
protect you from the AI bubble, you
know, kind of bursting or shrinking?
Okay. No, I'm not I'm not pitching this
as like a diversifier. It's not
diversified. You're exactly right. Like,
things have changed permanently.
This doesn't mean to your earlier
question,
every SaaS software company is going to
zero. I don't I don't believe that.
>> Mhm. Um I saw actually, I think it was a
journal story, they sort of did a matrix
breaking down the types of SaaS and
which ones would be more or less
impervious. And I agreed with the
conclusion.
Vertical software
that knows its industry incredibly well
and serves as a system of record for
small and mid-size companies that are
not like adventurous enough to start
hiring all their own AI people,
I do think that those will be better.
That doesn't mean there's not risk on
the halo side. So, it's not a framework
for like, here's how to protect
yourself. I don't think any company is
like screwed Mhm. existentially at this
stage in the game because I think some
of them will themselves become very good
utilizing AI
to come up with the the reinvention of
the company. Some of them will do it. I
am not expert enough in each one of
these companies where I can like make
that pronouncement. But, you better
believe that's what all of them are
working on. They're battling. Yeah. And
some of them will win their battles. And
in some cases, Anthropic will not be a
better chassis to run X company than the
existing SaaS. So, it I'm making it
sound very black and white just to
explain the idea behind it, but the real
world results will be much messier.
Well, we're going to take a quick break.
When we come back, more on halo with
Josh Brown.
Welcome back. Josh, one company I really
wanted to ask you about was, and this
gets name-checked a lot as a halo
company. I don't know if you know if you
came up with this or if other people
sort of stuck it in there. But, they're
reporting earnings this upcoming week,
and that's McDonald's. Mhm. What makes
that a halo company?
I think the physical footprint is the
story there. And um McDonald's over the
year over there years, decades, has
proven an ability to
uh figure out where the consumer's taste
is. Sometimes they're ahead of the
curve, sometimes they're behind it.
Sometimes there are some quarters where
they're turning things around because
they missed the opportunity or they went
left and the consumer went right. But,
the geographic footprint is the thing
that makes it undeniably halo.
You got to eat. You can't prompt your
way to nutrition or or enough calories
to get through the day. So, I I don't I
would not refer to those stocks as like
AI beneficiaries.
>> Okay. That's maybe a different category.
I also wouldn't really worry very much
about um Anthropic and Open AI and and
uh other LLMs replacing anything that
McDonald's currently makes money from.
Cuz I guess what what interests me about
a company like that is it well
may may and and maybe it's the heavy
footprint but you know as any any legacy
company to me seems disruptable not so
much that people aren't going to need to
eat but that somebody else could come
along and run kitchens more efficiently
come up with you know menu items faster
or maybe they'll have robots flipping
the burgers in the future.
>> But McDonald's itself will be doing a
better cheaper job of that. McDonald's
themselves will do all of those things
before anybody else comes along. We've
seen Cuz you can't get to that size.
Right. So what what you get when you
have consumer lock-in via the app and
you've got habits that have been formed
over multiple generations and you've got
that geographic proximity to X number of
workplaces and households and
when you have all of that
that gives you the wherewithal to
experiment and arrive at the future
faster than
someone that's not at that same
advantage. So I think
companies like that are just
automatically getting the benefit of the
doubt and McDonald's is not even the
best example.
I would talk about Target and Walmart.
And these now are companies that are
spending aggressively on AI to
streamline their own organizations and
they're and Walmart's been doing this
forever. It's sort of the story of
Walmart is how efficient they are.
You better believe these are companies
that will be able to get on conference
calls with investors
a quarter from now two three four
quarters from now and not just cite
anecdotes like oh we're using AI to
schedule employee breaks more efficient.
They would they're going to give you the
numbers.
>> Yeah. Well and that's interesting
because the dot com boom saw big
incumbents
businesses wrecked by right if you were
you know physical bookstores right were
put out of business by
Amazon. But you're saying in the AI
revolution it's not like AI is going to
make it so that you don't have to go to
a restaurant anymore. So maybe in this
kind of technology cycle
the advantage is to the incumbents
whereas it might not have been in the
past cuz I'm just wondering about how
historically if you'd play this strategy
through
every technological revolution whether
that's going back to you know the first
advent of you know kind of any kind of
computing in the 50s and 60s through the
dot com you know would have would owning
Caterpillar have made sense through all
of those things. Yeah. So the thing is
and this is the hard part right?
Cuz a lot of these things don't fit
neatly into a story or a linear like
we're like well if A happens and then B
happens then the resulting thing is
probably C and then D.
It rarely works out that way. I don't
want to over simplify things to the
point where I'm saying like
in the wake of AI every one of these
quick service restaurants will be fine
because they'll all incorporate AI into
their apps their their food ordering
processes their their freight their
logistics their hiring and they're all
going to work. Some of them will crash
and burn. I
I think it's so case by case
but a really good starting point is to
say well just like from a first
principles approach
if I had to rank these companies
on Halo versus not Halo like where where
would I put
where would I put QSR which is
Restaurant Brands which is Tim Hortons
Burger King all all the health food
chains
all rolled into one like where would I
put that relative to a McDonald's and
what am I scoring it on? What is their
R&D budget? What it like how are they
spending their capex? Like that's the
work of investing. So let's say our
listeners are looking at their own
portfolios right now. How do you
recommend they go about implementing the
Halo framework if they haven't done so
already? I'm not sure they have to
because if they are building market cap
weighted index portfolios the market
will eventually do that work for them.
Okay. So that's one. If they want to be
smarter than the market
a good way to
approach the problem of what to invest
in
would be to start with this question
rather than what you used to.
So you might have once said
I want to buy
the companies with the best CEOs or I
want to buy the companies with the
fastest revenue growth or I want to buy
the companies that are working on
oncology or whatever.
I'm not suggesting don't do that. What
I'm saying is maybe a different starting
point.
For starters could this thing go to zero
if Open AI raises the amount of money
they say they're going to raise when
they go public and they come out of the
trillion and Anthropic comes out at 700
billion and now these companies newly
public with huge war chests just set
about stealing every one of these
verticals from different incumbent
players like do you want to be in the
path of that? I definitely don't. That
is a great place to end. Thank you so
much for joining us Josh.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> [music]
[music]
>> You know you could always go for a
cheaper soda or energy drink to get that
caffeine buzz that you're looking for
and so you know
>> Tell us you can do that but I am not
giving up coffee.
>> [laughter]
>> I'm taking it all the way to the grave.
>> No no listen I'd rather trade like you
know I'd rather like trade like health
care premiums.
>> My my left arm.
>> [laughter]
>> You're not getting me to switch.
>> [music]